[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I love the idea of making
my own broth or my own stock
or my own vegetable stock
or anything like that.
And this is a great recipe
that I stumbled across somehow.
I don't know how.
We just threw
everything into a pot,
actually, one day on a
Heal Thyself program.
And this particular
dish was really
healing to a lot of the clients
that were in a juice fast
or in a healing crisis.
So this dish was
just extraordinary,
and it made a lot of sense
to me after I made it.
When I was making it,
I was, like, yeah,
I'll just make some
broth, you know?
But then when I
made it and had it,
it was it was so extraordinary.
The word was about
town about this broth,
and everybody was
coming in for broth.
Trust me.
The staff from where I work
were coming in for broth.
Everyone was talking
about this broth.
So what I've got
here in front of me--
and just have a look at
these accessible ingredients,
so accessible.
It's just ridiculous.
So there's no fuss or anything
in running to a faraway land
to get some obscure ingredient.
So it's really interesting
how something so deliciously
grounding and packed full
of minerals can be so easy.
So all you're going to do-- and
I'm not going to peel anything.
I'm not going to
peel these carrots.
I am going to peel the
onions, but that's it.
So what you're after
is some lovely carrots.
And you're just going
to chop them into chunks
like this, about 2 centimeters.
And I'm going to just put
everything into my pot.
Now, I've got a
10-liter pot here.
You could have a 5-liter pot.
It would be totally fine.
Just cut back on the veggies.
OK?
The quantities really are--
I like to use three to four
small Carrots it's kind of my--
some carrots are really big.
Some carrots are really small.
But these ones, three
to four carrots.
This is so easy.
It's such a beautiful recipe.
And then I've got an
onion, and I'm just
going to chop it into
chunks like this, just
nice, big chunks
straight into the pot.
Easy, isn't it, so far?
This is such a nourishing meal.
Just makes you
feel really, truly
humped from the inside out.
It's amazing.
So nice, big chunks.
OK.
The corn I'm just going
to chop into chunks.
Now, when you're
chopping corn like this,
just put it on the chopping
board, and just do this.
OK?
So keep your hand
away and just do that.
It's really easy.
So that's going to go in.
Simply and deliciously easy.
I've got some potatoes
just washed, unpeeled,
into large pieces like that.
I remember making this.
Honestly, I remember
thinking nothing of it.
It was really quite funny.
And then it just became
the greatest thing
that ever had existed.
It was Cynthia's broth.
I'm just going to cut the
mushrooms in half like that.
I'm just using button mushrooms.
I find them really good for
this dish, actually, just
little button mushrooms.
Do all of those.
What else can I say
about this broth, Scott?
Why does it taste so good?
I'm talking to Scott here.
You were one of the
people that ran in.
>> I was fasting when I
came off and had this broth.
>> He was fasting, and
he came off fasting,
and he had this broth.
>> And it was like the
best thing I've ever had.
>> And then Nick came
in, my other friend,
and kept wanting to have broth.
Where's the broth?
Is there any broth today?
It was like this frenzy.
It was really crazy.
So large chunks of zucchini.
What a beautiful
zucchini that is.
OK.
I've got some garlic
that I've just peeled.
I'm just going to do that to it.
OK.
The broccoli stalk-- just
large chunks of that.
Now, I'm going to leave
this broccoli to a bit last
so it doesn't fall
apart so much.
I've got some celery and some
parsley, so a bit of parsley.
All I'm going to do is just tear
it up and put it in like that.
I've got some celery.
Now, this is celery in Bali.
Check this out.
OK?
It's really-- it's quite
strong and celery smell.
It's amazing.
But this is how it comes.
I'm just going to
chop this up roughly.
Amazing, right?
We're more used to celery
being big, chunky pieces.
I'm going to put a bay leaf
in, a couple of bay leaves.
This is like mother nature's
stock that I'm creating here.
I'm going to put some leeks.
Leeks are just going to
add that sweetness to this.
It's really quite
delicious, actually,
really, really delicious.
All right.
Now, when you've got leeks like
this that are long and skinny,
all you want to do is make
sure you've washed them.
These have been washed
really well in here.
You've seen that in the
other recipes that I've done.
I'm just going to--
take a look.
I'm just going to chop
them up into large chunks,
just like this.
Yeah?
All the way through
right to the end.
Every piece of the leek is used.
This is a real--
we should call it
the mineral broth.
It's packed full of minerals.
Into here.
And the next step we're going to
do is fill this up with water.
So I'm putting my hand
in here, and I just
want to show you how
much water I need.
OK?
Right up to there.
So this is a good 8
liters of water in here.
Straight onto the stove.
The next thing I'm going to
do is add salt and pepper.
How much, you wonder?
Good question.
I'm going to add some
now, and then I'm
going to mix it and taste it.
And if I can taste salty
water, that's what I want.
So I'm going to give
that a good mix.
OK.
Mixing this through, and
then I want to taste.
If I can taste salty water--
I can't, really, so I need
a little bit more salt.
And this is how you know
how much salt to put in.
When I gave this recipe out to
the people in the Heal Thyself
program, they all
messaged me and and go,
how much salt, Chef?
How much salt?
And what's empowering about
this is that they all went back
to their kitchens, especially my
friend Danny, and he made this.
And he started to understand
how salt really plays
a big part in making food.
So he put it in.
He stirred it.
He tasted it, and it
had salty water in it.
And he was like, ah, that's
the amount of salt I need.
And that's what you need to do.
OK?
Straight onto the stove on high.
You're going to bring
this up to the boil.
It's going to bubble away
for about half an hour
on a slow boil, and
then you're going
to turn it on down to a
simmer for about three hours.
And then we'll come back to it.
This is beautiful.
It's been cooking for
a couple of hours.
And you want it to cook for at
least 2, 2 and 1/2, 3 hours.
So which one?
2, 2 and 1/2, or 3?
Look, I like to cook
until it's completely--
the carrots are completely soft.
To me, that's what I want.
So I always go on the carrots,
and the potatoes and everything
catch up.
It's just beautiful.
Look at this.
It's just yummy, gorgeous
broth, all yummy and delicious.
A bowl of this, whether you're
in a healing crisis or not--
because that's what
initially it was made for--
for those that were
really, really,
really quite sick in a
program called Heal Thyself.
And this was just
one of those moments
where we created
something quite special.
It's just beautiful.
Enjoy this, truly enjoy it.
It makes my mouth water.
It's like a color
from the inside out.
You feel really nourished after
you have something like this,
really supported.
I have no words to say this.
Nibble on the corn.
Allow the corn to
cool down, actually,
before you nibble on it.
And yeah, know that this
is a beautiful mineral--
high mineral content broth.
That's something quite special.
Use it as a stock
as well, totally.
Definitely use it as a stock.
But that's it.
That's how you make a really
beautiful vegetable broth.
It's something where I just
want to curl up and go to bed.
Can you smell that?
Can you guys smell that?
>> Yeah.
>> It's amazing.
Everyone is-- ah.
It's beautiful.
>> And stop and action.
Voila.
Is it voila or wala?
Voila?
Is it voila?
>> Voila.
Voila.
Parmigiana?
>> Parmigiana.
Parmigiana.
Stop it right now.
Shh!
Quiet.